the United Nations Security Council is
holding an open session on the war on
Gaza they're expected to vote on a
resolution calling for a suspension of
hostilities later on Tuesday meanwhile
the special coordinator for the Middle
East peace process has given an update
to the security Council ahead of that
vote he says he is alarmed by growing
violence against Palestinians in Gaza
and the occupied West
Bank I remain Gravely concerned by the
impact of the ongoing hostilities on the
humanitarian situation in Gaza the
current conditions are making it
impossible for Meaningful humanitarian
operations to be
conducted I'm also deeply concerned by
escalating tensions in the occupied West
Bank including East Jerusalem
intensified armed exchanges between
Palestinians and Israeli Security Forces
predominantly in the context of Israeli
operations have led to exceedingly high
levels of fatalities and arrests I read
itate that security forces must exercise
maximum restraints and use lethal Force
only when it's strictly unavoidable
unavoidable to protect
life let's bring in our correspondent
Gabriel alzando he's joining us live
from the UN headquarters in New York and
there is some hope for this vote is in
their Gabe which is due in the coming
hours that's right there is some hope
that this could possibly be a resolution
that is accepted by everybody on the
council and that it could perhaps uh
alleviate some of the suffering in Gaza
and get more humanitarian Aid in that's
sort of the big picture here but this
vote has been delayed it's a little
after 100 p.m. here local time in New
York about 1:20 to be exact we thought
this vote was going to happen at 10:00
a.m. then we thought we heard that it
was delayed to 11: then 12:30 now we're
heing it could be as late as 400 p.m.
local time or even 5:00 p.m. why the
reason is and the answer is because
there are still negotiations taking
place behind closed doors at this very
hour according to sources that Dair has
been speaking to because this is such a
critical resolution and the wording in
it is so sensitive particularly number
one is this is a humanitarian resolution
that is the focus of it uh by the UAE
that was the main uh drafter The Who
wrote up this draft resolution and are
the main sponsors of it but there's
issues about uh uh uh how to stop the
bombardment if you will and the first
draft said that it called for an urgent
and sustainable cessation of hostilities
to allow for humanitarian Aid that's
something that the US probably would not
go for so they've changed the wording to
the Urgent suspension of hostilities to
allow for unhindered humanitarian access
and for Urgent steps towards a
sustainable cessation of hostilities key
words there essentially the US would not
vote for anything we believe that would
uh uh stop permanently uh Israel's
ability to conduct their military
operations in Gaza and so that is why
the UAE and others on the council are
trying to find some wording that would
be a suspension of hostilities to get
the US on board all right Gabe so a lot
writing on the wording of this
resolution what else is significant in
it yeah there's a lot it's it's a pretty
hefty resolution there there's a lot in
it and a couple other things to point
out is number one is the council is is
saying that uh if this is voted on it
goes forward and passes uh they want a a
un Le monitoring mechanism in terms of
the aid again this is a resolution
really focused on ramping up or scaling
up the aid either by land sea or air in
Gaza they want a monitoring mechanism of
some sort to see how that Aid is getting
in facilitate that Aid getting in and
then uh monitor its dispersal in gasa
presumably to make it go faster and the
other issue as well is also in here they
say that uh this resolution says that
they want to have a uh UniFi Gaza with
the West Bank under the authority of the
Palestinian under the authority of the
Palestinian Authority after this
conflict is over that's very an
interesting an interesting part of this
resolution as well left unset is is that
with Hamas part of Hamas are they
assuming that Hamas will no longer be
part of the equation after this conflict
is over I don't know but clearly they
put that in uh the resolution uh that uh
after the conflict is over they expect
the the the West Bank in Gaza to be
unified under Palestinian Authority
control thank you very much Gabriel
aland with the latest live at the UN in
New
York